---
date: "2022-06-09"
date modified: "2022-06-15"
title: 'August 22, 2019'
---

# August 22, 2019
August 22, 2019

August 22, 2019

Thursday, August 22, 2019

4:29 AM

 

It's worth stopping by sometimes to appreciate the distance in which I have come, as well as the inevitable developments time has brought forth into my life. This is a gratitude and a worry session.

 

There are so many things to be grateful for. Thank you, God, for giving me LBW, the best 4 weeks of my life I have ever spent. Thank you for letting me meet Nicole, from the lunch area to the simulation to the beach to so much more. She's an amazing person, and though I may have overstepped at some point, our encounters have yielded so many lessons that I am only grateful for. The rest of the trip shall remain eternalized in my journal, and a very special place in my heart.

 

School has also brought forth a number of notable developments. Taco Thursday, general ASB discussions, meeting with Dr. Tung, Ms. Purcey's spaghetti game, and discovering Dunkey's Youtube Channel have become amazing experiences to have transpired.

 

Thankfully, there are many things to stay up to date as of currently. College apps continue to be a pressing matter, my English class grade beckons for investment, my writing asks for a return of form, ASB requires scheduling out of several conflicts, and I still wish to pursue violin and tennis.

 

College specifically has many central parts comprised of recommendation letters, resumes, and essays, foremost. In such a limited time frame, it continues to be a time sensitive subject that requires ample attention.

 

Dealing with college is merely a function of investing time every single day. I will do this, in addition to carving time out for English class, writing, ASB, and violin and tennis, both as a function to preserve my sanity and excel in my academic and extracurricular activities.
