---
---
# Reading Responses

## Bisson (1991)
#### Why do you suppose we're reading this short SciFi story for our class? That is, what potential connection(s) might it have the study of the mind, and what do you suppose the point of it might be for cognitive science? 

I believe that we are reading this short SciFi story for the broader implications of how amazing cognition truly is.

To any observer, the human body is objectively and merely “meat”. Yet, it is from meat that so many complex developments, interactions, and phenomena have risen. As the story remarked, humans have somehow managed to create radio waves, technology, etc., in spite of our ability to be simplistically characterized. To the external observer, that is remarkable.

In my opinion, there is something beautiful about the [[Stochastic nature of humanity’s existence contrasted with the methodical nature of robotics. It's natural, if not romantic, for us to precede them.|stochastic nature of humanity’s existence]]. As “meat”, we can be so simply characterized yet are also so overwhelmingly complex. It is truly a marvel to realize how much we are able to achieve, and that from our [[Stochastic nature of humanity’s existence contrasted with the methodical nature of robotics. It's natural, if not romantic, for us to precede them.|stochastic nature]] and biological processes have risen both order (such as machines and technology) and chaos.

## Marcus et al. (2014) and Carandini (2012)
#### According to these articles, what would we be missing out on if, when trying to understand how the mind works, all we studied were the low-level details of neural circuitry? 

If we studied the low-level details of neural circuitry, we would be missing out on a vital amount of understanding of how the mind works. Part of Marr's 3 Levels is comprised of computational, algorithmic, and implementation level details, and all three are essential, as we explored in class. As professor Scholl mentioned, a “rule in science...is to seek an appropriate level of description”, and there are processes on each level that should be appropriately described. A graph of a Commodore 64 computer’s circuitry is not insightful enough to how it works—and it is even worse for human brains, whose wiring and responses vary across humans.

## Sacks (2004)
#### This New Yorker article gives a nice initial sense of how wonderfully strange the mind (and especially the scientific study of the mind!) can be. While the distortions of temporal perception experienced by the patients described here are extreme (and extremely fascinating), we all have the experience of time passing (or seeming to pass?) quickly in some situations, but slowly in others. Just based on your own experience, name one or two factors that you think might be responsible for those different "speeds" of experience. 

I think one of the most notable factors that lead to different “speeds” of experience is the amount of salience and new exposure in the experience. For example, being in a situation that is saturated with new and unprecedented experiences would cause the time to go slower, as we are soaking in so much information in a short amount of time and are given the impression that time goes slower. In contrast, an experience with things we are very familiar with would cause the time to go by more quickly. This is a possible explanation why going to a place by car often feels much slower than the return trip back.

## Bouchard (2008)
#### This is a fairly dense and detailed chapter! Imagine that a classmate saw the article sitting next to you at dinner, and asked: "So, do genes really determine our behavior?" How might you summarize the main points of this chapter in just a few sentences? 

It’s plausible to say that there is an inextricably link between genes and our behavior, though the degree of the influence is still up for question. As Lynch and Walsh (1998) have put it, "If one's sole interest in performing a quantitative-genetic analysis is to demonstrate that the character of interest is heritable, there is probably little point in expending the effort. The outcome is virtually certain. Almost every character in almost every species that has been studied intensively exhibits nonzero heritability". When it comes to personality, we also had another study which reported that all 11 personality traits are “significantly heritable”, with a mean of .44. However, there were also studies that demonstrated that intelligence between identical twins was influenced by the environment. Therefore, there is still a degree to which the environment also shapes our behavior. Genes do determine our behavior, to a nonzero extent.

## Gandhi et al. (2015)
#### This article reports a way of investigating nature vs. nurture in visual perception by exploring what and how previously blind individuals see as soon as they gain sight. What is another visual ability that you suspect might not require much visual experience (i.e. so that the newly sighted children might immediately experience the relevant percept)? What is a visual ability that you suspect might actually require a significant degree of visual experience (i.e. so that the newly sighted children might not experience the relevant percept)? Why? 

I think the ability to visually classify would require a degree of visual experience. This is because classification requires a degree of cognition and experience that I think the children would not have yet. Computer vision is an incredibly difficult task in the realm of artificial intelligence (for good reason) and so I believe that it could also cause children some degree of difficulty. I think the ability to recognize light could be rapidly acquired. This is because light is something that eyes can detect, and I think detecting light doesn’t require the level of experience/cognition that recognition does (in other words, more of a hardware than software problem).

## Carston (1996)
#### In 1-2 paragraphs, consider the ways in which the emotions seem to be modular and non-modular.

We can consider emotions to be modular because there are instances in which the emotions we observe seem detached from our other parts of the mind or are arrived independently from our cognition. This is most noticeable when there are conflicts between our emotions and thought. For instance, one may feel a sudden swell of anger or resentment as an instinctual reaction to an injustice, even though a person may conclude that the emotion is unjustified. How a person feels and how they want to feel are two different things.

On the other hand, one could also characterize emotions as being non-modular because they seem to be a result of multiple cognitive processes/influenced by our thoughts. For example, when we consider how we feel about things, we consider different aspects that influence and shape our emotions. In this way, emotions are non-modular.

## Pinker (1997)
#### According to Pinker, what is the role of [[Evolution]] in explaining how the mind works? 

According to Pinker, we can use [[Evolution]] to explain how the mind works, at least to some extent, in how its cognition aligns with survival and natural selection. There are certain tendencies in cognitive processes that were selected for over the course of time. Some examples that come to mind could be our instinctual fears and certain behaviors that support living in tribes or communities like our ancestors.

## Pylyshyn (1999)
#### According to Pylyshyn, in what ways is the mind like and unlike a computer? 

According to Pylyshyn, the mind is similar to a computer through a variety of cognitive processes and the concept of working memory, input and output. It still differs from a computer in the respect of how it sees the world and views concepts in abstract methods (as a whole) , and has some degree of modularity in cognition .

## Nilsson & Pelger (1994)
#### This course is about the mind, but this paper is about a part of the body (i.e. the eye). Do you still think that these results are relevant to thinking about the [[Evolution]] of the mind? Why or why not? 

Yes, I think the results of the [[Evolution]] of the eye are relevant to thinking about the [[Evolution]] of the mind. In particular, the position that the paper posits is incredibly thought-provoking—that eye design evolved rapidly, that the eye design of a species is not necessarily a function of its phylogenetic relationship, but its need for vision. I find the latter half particularly intriguing, as it suggests that our cognition evolved rapidly in response as the need for it grew.

A particular argument that I found unintuitive and lacking thoroughness was epiphenomenalism under property dualism. The author described this as a “simple conclusion”, one that a neuroscientist could arrive at when they can only find physical explanations for actions, yet still experiences nonphysical thoughts and emotions. In response, they posit that there are physical processes that happen in our brain, which then cause our physical actions and cause our nonphysical desires, decisions, etc., but that these two results are completely independent of each other.

## Churchland (2013)
#### Paul Churchland discusses many different '-isms', and runs through many different arguments for each. Mention one argument that you thought wasn't a good one (or at least wasn't as strong as some others), and explain why.  (Churchland 2013)

The claim that our desires, decisions, etc. do not shape our actions (and that any impression otherwise is an illusion) feels counterintuitive and insufficiently explained. I felt that the way the conclusion was presented (which Churchland asserted was “not too difficult to understand), that our reaction is to just separate thoughts from actions because we cannot find another explanation linking the two, seems lazy or too quick of a logical leap. However, it’s plausible for one to argue that it is an Occam’s razor explanation where we are trying to minimize the amount of complexity added to our thinking.

## Buckholtz & Faigman (2014)
#### This article describes and evaluates how neuroscientific evidence might influence legal practices -- e.g. as they relate to determining people's intentions, or measuring their self-control. Some imagined legal applications seem plausible, and seem based on concrete discoveries that have already been made. Others are based on hazily imagined future neuroscientific advances, and seem sketchy and unlikely. Mention one such legal application that you think might fall into each category, and briefly explain why you put it in that category. Feel free to go beyond the applications explicitly discussed in this article when coming up with the examples you'd like to highlight. (Before answering this question, you might also want to check out the Nishimoto et al. paper -- as listed in the syllabus -- to get a sense of what is possible now.)  (2)

A legal practice I found incredibly plausible was the use of neuroscientific evidence to assist in making the case for reduced self-control capacity criminal for defendants, which can help mitigate culpability or undesirable outcomes where we convict criminals who are not deserving of such harsh sentences. This follows in line with the earlier example with the legal principle “actus non facit reum nisimens sit rea”, or ‘an act is not guilty unless the mind is guilty’, when applied to two cases of a car crashing into a civilian. However, one that I find quite sketchy is the potential for “predicting” potential activities and taking appropriate actions to preventing them using the help of neuroscience. While I find the actuarian analogy amusing and an entertaining thought, I feel that such a system could rapidly lead to an undesirable system (maybe one similar to the movie “Minority Report”). The system may help in detecting more inclined individuals or crimes before they happen, but I fear that false positives would lead to an overall negative experience for those affected, and it also creates a stratification or divide that “some people are much more likely to commit crime than others” that, even if true, would be a very negative message to send to the public.

## Greene et. al. (2001)
#### (1) Briefly summarize: What does this article purport to show about the nature of ethical judgments?

The article claims that some moral dilemmas (such as the footbridge dilemma) engage one’s emotional processing to a greater extent than others (such as the trolley dilemma), and these differences affect people’s judgments through their emotional engagement and response. In the distinction between the trolley and footbridge dilemmas, one’s emotional response (and whether one chose to decide with or in spite of it) played an important role in the decision making of participants. In other words, emotional responses play an important role in our ethical decision making.

#### (2) What do you think: Could we have learned this without the use of [[fMRI - Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging|fMRI]]? Why or why not? 

I think that it is possible to have realized this, but not necessary learned this, without the use of [[fMRI - Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging|fMRI]]. This study reminds me of the view of emotivism amongst some philosophers, where philosophical claims are viewed as expressions of feeling or emotion. In this way, we are expressing our attitudes towards certain values through our moral judgements. While this is perhaps less scientifically rigorous than the study in the readings, it is interesting that some philosophers have also touched upon a similar conclusion as the study. However, I view this more as “realizing” rather than “learning” since it is not as scientifically rigorous, but rather subjective.


## Yang et al. (2018) and Scassellati & Vazquez (2020)
#### These two papers both muse about possible advances and applications in robotics. After reading them, let us know your thoughts (in 1-2 paragraphs) about how you think these possible advances might intersect in interesting ways with other topics from our class -- either abstract themes (such as [[Innateness]] or modularity) or specific cognitive processes (such as language or perception). What possible connections do you see, and what questions do you have about them? Be sure that your response somehow indicates that you've done these readings.  (Yang et al. (2018) and Scassellati & Vazquez (2020))

I think that the developments in robotics intersect in interesting ways with our discussion of [[Innateness]], Marr’s 3 levels, and modularity. In regards to robot navigation and exploration, the author cites path planning, obstacle avoidance, localization, and environment mapping as ubiquitous requirements that have been aided by advances in sensing, machine vision, and embedded computation. The remarkable increase can be described as a progression in all three of Marr’s 3 levels: our implementation of hardware sensing systems have improved, as well as the machine learning models and algorithmic approaches, as well as our greater understanding of the computational problem itself. The development of robotics also challenges us in confronting our instinct blindness and uncovering what’s behind the [[Innateness]] and modularity of our own cognitive processes. We do not know how exactly vision or sensing works, but our quest to build robots furthers our understanding of it.

## Everaert et al. (2015) and/or Pinker (1994)
#### A 2-part question: (1) Write a grammatical sentence that's at least 250 words long. (2) Why, according to the authors, is it interesting and important that you can do this? (Everaert et al. (2015) andor Pinker (1994))
 
It is incredibly verbose and completely unnecessary to write a single sentence that is up to 250 words long, yet understandable in the context of this class, for the ability to write a sentence of such a length can be a great exercise of one's understanding of the English language should they find it useful to exercise such an understanding; if we were to entertain the usage of the semicolon—a very useful tool if you would like to cheat and unite two independent clauses similar in thought—or the dash—an equally useful tool if you wish to completely interrupt your sentence to add additional information—then we can arrive to the one hundred word mark without too much additional hassle, if the reader is able to withstand such gymnastics; otherwise, we risk having the reader become completely disgusted, throwing their hands up in the air and regarding our writing with utter contempt and disgust, for it is a complete waste of words and an insult to the modern English language to even attempt such a long and unwieldy sentence when modern advancements have only placed further emphasis on concision and velocity of idea transfer; but in the context of Cognitive Science, it is useful for us to see how far we can stretch the limits of languages within its rules, all the while understanding it, for language is an incredible thing to study and understand in our quest to build upon our knowledge of the human mind. ^436a55

One important takeaway from this exercise is further reinforcing the article's statement that grammar is a discrete combinatorial system in which rules shape our understanding. Since it is a combinatorial system, there are an infinite number of ways to construct meaningful sentences (in the same way, as the article points out, that there are an infinite number of integers). From these initial rules of language, we are able to construct long and meaningful sentences. This is important because it follows the theme that from simple rules or systems can arise very complicated machines (such as building up from Turing machines).


## Stillings et al. (1995)
#### This classic textbook chapter goes into a bit of detail about the nature of syntactic analysis, focusing in particular on _case assignment_. (This reading will be tough going, since it is so very technical. But it is also written as an introduction for undergraduates, so with care you should be able to follow this material.) This would be good to read, to help appreciate just a small sliver of the astounding degree of complexity inherent in the syntax of natural languages -- and in contemporary linguistic theories of syntax. So please read this excerpt, and then explain in one short paragraph why the following sentence is not grammatical: "It was assumed that maskless students to be reckless."

This example is similar to that of page 259 in the Stillings reading with the example "It was believed she/Brenda/her to be a spy". In this case, subordinate clause is infinitival, and there is no tense marker available to assign nominative case to “she". If "to be" were to be replaced with "were", then this sentence would be correct.

The sentence's incorrectness is similarly founded on the principle of tense assignment and governance. If we draw the structure diagram of this sentence, we see that we are not able to assign every noun a case from a tense in the same governance, encountering the same problem as the example in the Stillings reading. No tense can assign a case to a noun except "assumed", but there are two noun phrases which need a tense, which makes this sentence incorrect.

"To" is a tense which suggests that we should get nominative case

tenses assign nominative cases, infinitives assign accusative case

First, since the subordinate clause is infinitival, there is no tense marker available to assign nominative case to embedded subject position, explaining the impossibility of she in subject position. In fact, case   cannot be assigned from within the subordinate clause, since there are no governingcase assigners in the clause. 



## Goldman & Mason (2006)
#### This paper offers one example of how ideas from philosophy (involving the distinction between the 'theory theory' and '[[simulation theory]]') can contribute to cognitive science. To get a better sense for this distinction, please apply it to one or more of the thorny disputes we've seen recently between Democrats and Republicans. Suppose that a Democrat is trying to predict what Republicans will think about a given question, and now suppose that the Democrat's prediction ends up being completely wrong. How could you explain this error if you assume that the Democrat was using a theory? And how could you explain the error if you assume that the Democrat was using simulation? (Goldman & Mason (2006))
 
The distinction between "theory theory" and "[[simulation theory]]" can be thought of as theory vs. imagination in efforts to mindread or predict mental states of others. In theory theory, one applies a more theoretical approach: for example, as the reading writes, if someone believes *p* and *if p then q*, then other things being equal, they will believe *q*. In contrast, [[simulation theory]] is the attempt to simulate or reproduce in our minds the same state as our target. ^13cd52
 
If a Democrat's prediction ends up being completely wrong and they were using theory, I would say that it is likely that their rules are too strict and predict the target to always behave in a rational manner, even though this is rarely the case. One cannot simplify behavior with a "if a then b", though one could be especially susceptible to this if we try to use theory.

If a Democrat's prediction ends up being completely wrong and they were using simulation, I would say that it is likely that they are projecting or letting their own beliefs and priors muddy their ability to think and simulate the feelings of a Republican.

## Firestone & Scholl (2016)
#### This looooong (but hopefully interesting!) paper showcases an ongoing debate in the field, about how distinct seeing is from thinking. After you read the target article (excepting Section 2, which isn't required), browse through the many ensuing commentaries from other scientists -- nearly all of which argue against the target article in some way, by design -- and pick one that sounds especially intriguing to you. Then, after reading it carefully, let us know in one paragraph what you think about the status of the debate after reading that commentary. In particular: (1) Summarize the key points of the commentary in a few sentences. (2) Then discuss: did you find the commentary to be compelling? Why or why not? (You can then also search the authors' response -- which starts on p. 53 -- in order to see how we actually responded to your chosen commentary, and then if you want to also incorporate that into your RQ answer, that's fine -- but you don't have to do that.)

I chose Balcetis & Cole: *Task demand not so damning: Improved techniques that mitigate demand in studies that support top-down effects.* The commentary asserted that Firestone & Scholl's techniques in their study were fundamentally flawed because they introduced new forms of demand, and proposed 5 different alternative methods to mitigate these effects. These five were accuracy incentives to limit the chance of response bias, using counterintuitive behavioral responses, between-subject designs, double-blind hypothesis testing, and dissociating participiants' perceptual experiences. From the response on page 59, we see that Firestone & Scholl argued these new recommendations are "no substitute for the nonnegotiable strategies of masking demand and carefully debriefing subjects about the experiment"– and in many cases these supposedly “superior” techniques actually worsen the problem of demand (they were not "superier, or even remotely sufficient"). Though I initially thought the commentary to be convincing (specifically since there were 5 alternatives proposed), I think that the response was incredibly thorough in addressing all five and changed my mind once again.
    
## Most et al. (2001) or New & Scholl (2008)
#### These are both relatively short experimental reports, both about visual awareness -- and more particularly about types of fascinating 'blindnesses': Most et al. (2001) [listed in the syllabus for 11/11] explores 'inattentional blindness', and New & Scholl (2008) [listed in the syllabus for 11/9] explores 'motion-induced blindness'. There is still quite a lot that we don't know about these phenomena, so we'd like you to pick one, and to offer some further thoughts about it (after reading them both, of course). If you pick Most et al. (2001), then in your response you should suggest two real-world situations in which people would be likely to experience inattentional blindness -- and you should discuss how those situations could be changed to decrease the likelihood of IB. Or, if you pick New & Scholl (2008), you should try to come up with another possible 'MIB' experiment that sheds light on its nature, or could measure the factors that cause it; briefly describe the question your experiment is meant to address, and how the experiment might work.  

I found the finding of Experiment 1incredibly interesting—that the more similar an unexpected object is to the attended the objects, the more likely we are to notice it. I was expecting the opposite to be true, but suppose the explanation is plausible: we are fixated or [[primed]] on a certain category and therefore, more readily identify the unexpected object when it conceptually matches what we are primed for.

In the real world, I can imagine that this is a common occurrence in traffic accidents; one focuses intensely on traffic and doesn't notice foreign objects that enter the road and can be potential hazards. It can also be used in magic tricks, where magicians use inattentive blindness and the redirection of attention to pull off their tricks.



## The 'OK, Go' video assigned in the syllabus for 11/3
Watch [this music video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m86ae_e_ptU) (already viewed 27 million times) carefully. Then pick some especially interesting phenomenon or moment from this video, and describe: (1) just when that moment occurred in the video -- giving the relative time-stamp(s); (2) why that moment yielded an interesting visual experience; and (3) how that visual experience could be explained by some of the material you've read (or heard during the lectures) so far about visual perception! (_And P.S.: if you've been living in a WiFi-less cave and haven't seen this band's videos before, just note that I'm not even sure that this one would be in the running for one of their top-5 most awesome videos. At any rate, it involves approximately 2300 fewer Japanese girls holding umbrellas than does [this one](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u1ZB_rGFyeU) (already viewed 46 million times) -- which also exploits several key principles of visual perception!_)  

0:23.  There are numerous instances in this video like this where objects at completely different planes and depths from the camera, yet appear to be in the same plane.

It appears that this effect is achieved through using lighting and contiguous colors: the way that the set is shaded, and the fact that the orange items are arranged so that they appear to make a completely filled square, makes it easier it easier for me to perceive the image is flat.

This reminds me of two concepts from class:
1. The problem of perception: that we have 2D retinas to process a 3D world, and must use certain heuristics to fill in the gaps ^c1f7c6
2. Countershading: That we have universal assumption that light comes from the top, which makes it easier to trick us with lighting. There are also certain instances where we believe a person is upright, in spite of the fact that they are sideways or even upside down, in the video.

##  Based on these articles, how do the social abilities of dogs and nonhuman primates compare to those of human toddlers? (Arre & Santos)

Based on these articles, it seems like dogs and nonhuman primates differ between human toddlers in "belief state representational ability", or the consideration of other agents' points of view. As the article states, "humans spend considerable time thinking about how another agent’s subjective (and sometimes incorrect) worldview might influence their behavior", an ability that requires one to generate both their own representation about the world, as well as the other agent’s. Researchers have observed this ability ability in infants younger than 15 months. However, in the case of chimpanzees and other nonhuman primates,  the article has cited varying evidence that has been disputed on the grounds of "small sample sizes and other methodological issues" (138).

##  This paper proposes one (sort of surprising!) factor that may underlie our percepts of facial attractiveness. What is another factor that you suppose might also underlie such perceptions -- and how (in a quick sketch) could you test for that? (Butler, Saville, Ward, & Ramsey 2017)

 I would like to test whether women have any preference for men with rugged/masculine facial features, and if there is any patterns for when this occurs. The way we could test this is similar to the study given in the reading, in which participants are presented pictures and then rate attractiveness.
 
 The motivation for this comes in a discussion in another psychology class I gook earlier this year. We discussed the attraction of an "average" face, and in addition to this, the professor mentioned a study that showed that females had a greater preference to rugged/masculine facial features during ovulation, but otherwise had a greater preference for the average face.
 

## Toward the end of this recent review paper on judgment and decision-making, the authors discuss potential real-world applications of the work they review. Pick some other example of a real-world problem or challenge (that the author did not discuss) where this work could be relevant. Briefly describe your example and the relevant psychological principles or heuristics that might help to address it. (Fischhoff & Broomell (2020))

A real-world problem or challenge where decision theory could be applied could be with Artificial Intelligence ethics and the potential existential risk that maligned AI can pose to humanity. There is a lot of ground to be gained in an artificial intelligence that can provide evidence or even directly participate in decision making (in politics, business, etc.). However, possibly even more importantly, decision making will be crucial in deciding the moral codes and how we want such AIs to be applied in the future. Deciding how and who is able to be part of understanding morality AI will be critical, especially once they become more powerful than humans.

##  Geez: First Professor Scholl makes us read about monkeys, then ants and bees, and now fish! (And this seems backwards: I thought this lecture was supposed to be about the "birds and bees", not fishes!) Anyway: How do the pipefish described in this article differ from us in interesting ways, and why? (Berglund & Rosenqvist (1993))

It seems like Pipefish differ from us due to males rather than females exhibiting the "reproductive hesitation". As the article writes, males brood the eggs and provide for the offspring, and exhibited a greater degree of "choosiness". The reason for this may be because males are investing a greater amount of energy in each brood—analogous to females often investing more in the raising of offspring for males. Therefore, male pipefish have a greater interest in choosing the right mate.

 ## This chapter discusses some interesting ways in which we think about probabilities, including some classic heuristics, biases, and fallacies of reasoning. Partway through the chapter, the author compares these quirks in our judgment to visual illusions. Pick one example Osherman uses, and describe one or two ways in which it resembles a visual illusion, and one or two ways in which it doesn't. (Osherson (1995))
 
 One example Osherman mentions is "anchoring", in which the initial value presented to participants drastically influence their later estimates in regards to the initial value (or anchor). In some ways, this is similar to the Muller-Lyer illusion with two horizontal lines of equal length, but with arrows on the ends pointing inwards or outwards. The arrows are similar to anchors because they are additional information that doesn't change the correct answer (the length of the line), but can drastically influence one's estimations if presented. However, the illusion is slightly different in that it is comparing two different lines, rather than having one estimate the length of a single line itself (which may make it closer akin to the anchoring effect).