---
title: 2022-08-08 Hoppsibs 2021-2022 sign-up
date: "2022-09-06"
date modified: "2022-09-06"
aliases:
  - 2022-08-08 Hoppsibs 2021-2022 sign-up
linter-yaml-title-alias: 2022-08-08 Hoppsibs 2021-2022 sign-up
---

# 2022-08-08 Hoppsibs 2021-2022 sign-up
Want to change a first-year's life? (Or at least make a contribution to it?) To be a HoppSib for the Class of 2025, all you have to do is: 1. Be a sophomore, junior, or senior in Hopper who wants to meet some Hopper first-years. You don't have to have been a HoppSib before and if you were one in the past you can absolutely do it again. 2. Find a Co-Sib and sign up using this Google Form (one form per pair). If you don't have a co-sib, sign up anyway and we'll try to match you with one. 3. Write a short hello to your first-year sibs in the box at the end of this form. HCC will send it to them along with your names and emails so that they get a nice, personal welcome to the HoppFam! 4. Reach out to your HoppSibs! We'll send you their emails, so saying hi is super easy. I'm sure you remember how many questions you had before move-in so starting there is a great idea. (Friending them on Facebook is also encouraged!) 6. Be the best HoppSib you can be! HoppSibs are another resource/friend first-years can turn to. Be there to give them serious guidance if they want it, be a friendly face, or anything in between. Just be your wonderful, welcoming selves and they'll soon understand why Grace Hopper is the best college around. FAQs: --> When is this form due? August 8th --> What official HoppSib events will there be? HCC will plan in-person (!!!) events, including a big meet and greet at the beginning of fall semester --> What is the time commitment? The more the better! We understand each HoppSib will have different commitment levels, but we hope you'll build meaningful relationships with your HoppSibs. Email [kate.williams@yale.edu](mailto:kate.williams@yale.edu) if you have any questions and enjoy the remaining weeks of summer!

Your email (**[braden.wong@yale.edu](mailto:braden.wong@yale.edu)**) was recorded when you submitted this form.

## Name *
Braden Wong

## Email address *
[braden.wong@yale.edu](mailto:braden.wong@yale.edu)

## Are you signing up with a co-sib? if not, we will try to match you with one. *
Yes

No

## You and your co-sib's class year (check multiple if needed)
✓

Sophomore

Junior

Senior

## Co-sibs name
David Peng

## Co-sibs email address
[david.peng@yale.edu](mailto:david.peng@yale.edu)

## What are your interests? hobbies? majors? activities at yale? are there any particular affinity groups you'd like to be paired with? tell us about you so we can best pair you with your sibs! *
Braden Hobbies: Student Council, Effective Altruism, Programming, Philosophical Conversations, Reading, Piano (for funsies), Exploration David Hobbies: Design for America, Yale Symphony Orchestra, Codehaven, Music/Cello, Yale Daily News Data Desk, Volleyball, Music

## Send a short hello message! tell them something you would've liked to know the summer before your first year or anything else you'd like to share (we'll send this to your younger sibs when we pair them with you.) *
Hello!! We’re Braden and David, and we’re going to be your HoppSibs! We’ll be two sophomores in Hopper College who will be your friends and resources for anything you may need. We're super flexible and are down to hang out whenever and answer any questions you have throughout the year! Just some background on us: Braden: I'm a rising sophomore from Arcadia, California majoring in Ethics, Politics, and Economics, with some background/interest in Computer Science and maybe Psychology. Outside of the classroom, I’m really active in Yale Effective Altruism, class council, Residential College council, and a small handful of clubs like YHack (hackathon club), YUDI (small finance club), CASA (Chinese American community), and more! David: I’m a rising sophomore from Scarsdale, New York thinking about majoring in Computer Science or one of the “CS &’s”. Outside of class, I’ve enjoyed collaborating with community groups in Design for America (volunteering), playing as a cellist in the Yale Symphony Orchestra, teaching how to code to middle schoolers with Codehaven, making infographics for the Yale Daily News Data Desk, and trying out several other orgs. If you have any questions about anything really, even moving in since that can be pretty hectic, don't hesitate to ask. Here's our numbers if you guys want to contact us: Braden 626-627-4599 David 914-645-1957 Looking forward to meeting you soon! Braden and David
