---
date: "2022-09-25"
date modified: "2022-09-25"
---

# 2022-09-25

## Talk with Josh You
- What makes your writing most different from other software engineers or people in your role?
- Suppose that you were to write a forum post today. In what way would it be most different from other posts?
- [[EA has a lot of Software Engineers, but struggle to find senior hires]]
- EA Software Engineers are heading towards [[Market rate]]
- [[It's hard to plan for direct work]]
	- [[EA entry level roles are rare]]
- Coding interviews seem superficially about [[Algorithms]], but they're really about [[Data structures]]

## Talk with [[Tyler Cowen]]
- [[Drake Equation]] and the chances of alien induced extinction
- [[EA has done more for AI acceleration than anyone]]
- Bullish on North America, not bullish on Germany
- EAs should be more socially conservative
	- [[Live like Mormons]]
	- We are too socially liberal, coming from socially liberal backgrounds
	- Consider [[Edmund Burke]]
	- Most people will be strongly democratic from our demographics
- [[People figure out consensus but not what they actually believe in]] and [[My Favorite Criticisms of EA]]
- [[We should live like Mormons]]
- [[Edmund Burke]] and the value of kinds of [[Knowledge]] you can't theorize about
	- Think of the future as different from the present in the same way that the present is different from the past
- You should not at all take an anti-feminist stance. [[There needs to me more feminism in the world]]
	- This is from [[Tyler Cowen]]'s travlling. India, Pakistan, etc.
	- Do not worry about
	- [[You should travel]], and [[Travel is the best form of learning]], even more than reading.
		- [[Reading is overrated]]—it's useful in the beginning, but you'll end up reading the stuff everyone else is reading. Be choosy with what you read
	- [[You should read on the plane instead of the screen]]. Reading the screen is less productive
		- Stop staring at the screen
- [[Washington D.C.]] Restaurant Recommendations
	- Rumi's kitchen
	- Destino
	- Peter Chang Sichuan in Arlington is really good and a great demonstration

## Talk with Mason
- [[Independent thinking|Independent reasoning]]
- [[I like building things in itself. Like if the world was perfect, I would just build stuff... but it's not]]
- Replacability
- [[Reconsidering career optionality]]

## Talk with [[Tyler Cohen]]
- If you're going to do EA, start with what you love, not an optimal
- AI [[Accelerationalist]]
- Learning languages is encouraged but could be decreasing in value
	- The returns are decreasing, especially as English
	- [[The value of language learning is decreasing]]
	- [[I am a privileged generation for being able to live two lives. One with the internet and one without the internet.]]
- [[EA is way too homogenous]]
- [[Lab leak hypothesis]]
	- Tyler's highest $p$ on lab leak was 60-40. Now it's 20-80 or 30-70. Over time, $p$ is falling since the fact that nobody has revealed anything suggests that maybe it never happened
- Should the US ban [[Tik Tok]]?
	- It is a dominant strategy to insist China sell the company to a foreign company
- [[Libertarianism]] was dominant in the 70s. The problems—high taxes, communism, etc. all could be answered with Liberarianism. It is less dominant now—[[Libertarianism]] struggles to answer the pandemic, etc.
- The more excited you are now, the more likely you are to peter out
- Even if the area is seemingly intractable, having a lot of smart people working on something makes me more [[Bullish]]. See [[Crypto]] and [[Talent]]
	- [[Human capital is way more important than infrastructure capital]]
- We should regulate climate change, regulate finance, but otherwise deregulate everything else
	- Tyler's wife is a regulator. He has a *very realisitic* opinion on regulations
- How do we improve meritocracy?
	- We are already pretty good on meritocracy
- [[What's a question you wish more people asked you?]]
- Be more [[Edmund Burke|Burkian]] or consider cultural
- [[You're optimally suboptimal. Even though you would like to be optimally optimal]]
- [Chess scandal](https://www.justjared.com/2022/09/23/magnus-carlsen-breaks-silence-amid-bizarre-chess-cheating-scandal/)
- [[Guide to Travel#Have a strong home base]]

## Talk with Richard Altiera
- [[BUS]]
- The no-bullshit value of getting a law degree for people who want to do policy
	1. Strong [[Networking]] effects. The [[Networking]] is insane, and most of the most powerful people in [[Biden]]
	2. Signaling value
- [[Yale Law School]] is the best for people who want to do policy since it has the most freedom
- [[Yale Law School]] is powerful for people who don't have exceptional current things
- [[Policy]] is now increasingly receptive to people with [[Data science]], [[Software engineering]] and other [[Technical]] skills
- This summer, I thought a lot about [[Theory of Impact]] and thinking about [[Independent thinking|Independent reasoning]]. It was one of [[My turning points]]
- [[If you were in my position, what would you do?]] I'm curious on your opinions, based off this very short 20-minute inverview.

## Talk with Isabella Duan
- If you could build anything, what would you build?
	- More institutions to give EA jobs
- [[[If you could code in any way, what would you build?]]
- What does a day look like?
- When did you know this is what you were meant for? See [[This is what I was meant for]].
- I am skeptical of people who are overenthusiastic
- Let's say I see a room of white men who are longtermist and want to do AI Safety. Even with the [[Benefit of the Doubt]], superficially, I might lead to me doing that
- [[People figure out consensus but not what they actually believe in]]
- An app that allows you to see possible life outcomes

## Talk with Matt Iglesias
- Aesthetics of EA
- Don't not talk to reporters. [[The only thing worse than talking to reporters is not talking to reporters]]

https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3954498
https://www.fhi.ox.ac.uk/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/Improving-Judgments-of-Existential-Risk.pdf
