---
date: "2022-06-09"
date modified: "2022-06-15"
title: 1. Lost and Forgotten
---

# 1. Lost and Forgotten
A quiet familiar engine rumbles distinct above all other noises in my room. I scramble outside.

“Hi Grandma! Hi Grandpa!” I say in a cheerful voice. I unfold my grandmother’s walker and lead my grandfather’s gaited shuffles as our dignitaries make their way inside. Excitement bubbles through my veins and voice, but I do not know whether to show or try to hide it.

The ritual is simple. Grandma and Grandpa are seated in the house; a movie is watched, then a family Thanksgiving dinner held. Grandpa bestows me money for my troubles, this time a generous five-dollar bill. As I help my mother dish out the food she so painstakingly prepared days in advance, I feel twinges of guilt for not knowing any way to help besides mixing sweet potatoes with butter and forks with chopsticks on the dinner table.

Part of me doesn’t want to talk. My grandmother’s dementia has worsened: she thinks it is Chinese New Year again, so we lovingly jest and wish her a happy Chinese New Year as well. Nobody mentions but age has changed everything—my younger brother has grown taller than I am, my cousins are starting families, and I stand next in line to join them. I briefly chuckle, and then smile into an empty gaze at the turkey on my plate, proud to understand what it took to bring us to this moment. But as my stomach fills, the gaze only becomes emptier.

I know amidst it all, there is a much larger struggle taking place. The threads holding onto everything are inevitably falling out of grasp. I take a glimpse at my grandparents. What used to be almost weekly visits have now been at best bimonthly encounters, each exchange seemingly more brief than the last. My grandpa did not always furnish me with lush dollar bills—instead, handfuls of quarters gradually inflated as opportunities to visit me became even scarcer. Not even love is safe from the economics of supply and demand. Now, every second spent is no longer a grain of sand, but a diamond in the ever-dwindling sea of an hourglass—mine and theirs slowly running out in terrifying concord.

And then, there is silence.

We lie blind to what awaits us in the future. The current events and family achievements, all the talk and warm buzz, are nothing but mindless white noise compared to what must be said later down the road. And the subsequent silence that looms over is a heavy blanket, not from an absence of thought—but its ultimate manifestation.

Sometime in the distant future, there may be a day when I will no longer be able to help my mother dish out food, when I may not be able to stir sweet potatoes, or even lay out forks and chopsticks. There may even be a day when my grandparents will not be the visitors to my parents’ house—but I will. And that eerie thought, of both fate and future, resonates in the deepest and darkest depths of my heart.

I want to say that every second I spend with my family is not enough. So much more can be said, so much more done, but it is as if it’s a constant battle uphill. When transportation is deafeningly swift and communication near-instantaneous, why is it that some things are still inevitably lost forever? There will always be information lost with their creators—secrets of the world, never shared soon enough for all to enjoy.

I want to ask everyone for everything they know, to not stop until every last drop of precious memory is found, and it starts with those I hold dearest—those who sit on the other side of the dinner table. I can immortalize them, make their dreams and memories live forever within me—but there is no certainty in my voice. Questions catch in my throat and flow out through a gaze of dreaming wistfulness. Countless ailments, theirs with no better diagnosis than “old age,” and mine no less than "cowardice," grow even greater with each visit. Will they be able to remember my face the next day, and the next, and beyond? Perhaps they are in blissful ignorance, but I am more aware than anything—that each successive day means more to learn in less time.

Several minutes pass before I realize the stillness of breathing and stirs of sighing are whispering something to me. I have been hearing them all this time, but only now begun listening. They have been beckoning me to join them, to share peace in the moment, and in return receive nothing as an answer.

Nothing as _the_ answer.

At this grand table, there is no greater challenge than unzipping the complex abstract into the basic tangible. To attempt to transfer our inexhaustible volume of memories through only the means of words, sounds, and thoughts is impossible. It is because of this limit that we must be so selective in what we choose to express and what we do not. Those expressions, ultimately, makes us who we are.

And silence is one of those expressions.

At the dinner table, in the peaceful clanging of steel against ceramic and incisors against viand and nothing else, there is relief as one more member joins the silence. To relive the accounts my grandparents have experienced is not my decision, but theirs, and I am not one to ask, but to receive it when necessary. Rather than obsess over what to receive, all I need to focus on right now is what I express at the present, and that is one simple thing: love.

I don’t want to lose the memories of my grandparents anytime soon—but this silence is a perfect symphony amidst a raging storm. A past that needs not be awakened lies in deep rest before me, and until it chooses to open, I patiently await its call. And if I am not the one to find immortality for them, then let me be content knowing that their memories will find peace elsewhere. Perhaps memories are valuable because they are as tenuous in storage as they are ephemeral in creation. They may be lost, may be erased, may never form at all—but the present will always remain priceless.

I suppose it is because there are memories that some things are meant to be forgotten. But as the quiet symphony plays on, I silently bow my head and give thanks for having something to lose in life, for that makes it all the more worth living.
