---
date: "2022-06-09"
date modified: "2022-06-15"
title: 2. An Effusive Apology to the Plastic Spork
---

# 2. An Effusive Apology to the Plastic Spork
"Well you see, when a spoon and a fork love each other very much…"

I was utterly horrified. "Dude!" I exclaimed in protest to my friend’s etymological explanation (had I been older, the nature of its conception as well)—but realized it was not my child to name. The brazen cuteness of the portmanteau was too great for us elementary school students to resist. Its inventors were probably dancing in their graves, as we excitedly ripped apart the plastic wrap, eyes wide with tacit oohing and aahing as we examined our new presents.

I absolutely hate sporks. Unabashedly detest them. Wholeheartedly loathe them. Any slew of words which could encapsulate an utter hatred for useless objects. There is no tool as horrific to hold as to behold. To wield or to witness a spork in action is just messiness. It’s sloppy. Its prongs stab my mouth, a tax forcefully imposed on our every transaction. I never use one for eating. It's really terrible.

Later that night during dinner, my family told me sporks were invented in late nineteenth-century America. _Of course_, I muttered under a breath of pure contempt. _Nothing better than sticking things into this melting pot and hoping something practical comes out_. I stared at my chopsticks, a scowl resting on my lips, as I shook my head.

For the next week, our sacred lunchtime experiments revealed a wholly disappointing analysis. It picked up rice, but jammed when twirling noodles. It easily scooped mashed potatoes, but leaked anything more watery than the cafeteria special aqueous chowder soup. It stabbed fruit and vegetables, but was no match for anything stronger than a human fist (a tactical disadvantage which the ensuing brawl with the 5th graders proved conclusively). The jack-of-all-trades was too much of one for its own good, for whatever it did, something else could do better. As the cafeteria-industrial complex continued to churn out these abominations, replacing spoons and forks but destined never to be as good as either, it left a bitter taste in our mouths. We never wanted to touch one again.

The spork was too ambitious for its own good, desiring to interweave two cultures of impossibly stark contrast. To conceive it, the warm, gentle nature of the spoon's caress must be united with the stabbing, belligerent nature of its deranged cousin. But you cannot juxtapose the care of love with the violence of war and expect a product that is either caring or violent—instead, you get an ugly child, the product of an incestuous marriage between two emotional extremes. The spork is a curvy, would-be masterpiece with short, unsightly teeth gnashed in its abdomen, a would-be deadly weapon whose blade is laughably blunted by its own corpulent, comical housing. Had its niches been deeper or shape been narrower, perhaps it may have found more success. For now, however, it is hard to say if mother or father would be proud.

To the spork, I know I need to ease on the remarks because in truth, I really do appreciate it. It is a martyr, an ugly duckling, with an uncompromising idealism to compromise and make the world a better place. It was trying its best, after all.

***

_A note to the author (written by yours truly, Plastic Spork):_

_Your jest is amusing, but you should know that you are a spork, too._

_That’s right. I have been watching you carefully from a distance. Your brother is still foolish enough to buy school lunches, so I interrogated him with the assistance of my partner in crime, Plastic Knife. I know everything you said about me. You are so forked up._

_I wish not to annihilate your dreams, but you, too, are too ambitious. Your brother tells me you are a self-proclaimed jack-of-all-trades, conceived in the American melting pot. I have some news for you. You cannot couple “creative” hard work with a “satisfactory” social life and expect a combination that is either “creative” or “satisfactory”—instead, you get an antisocial social mess, the wavering aftermath of constant switching between two extremes. Efficiency is doing things right, but effectiveness is doing the right things, and while you being efficient is a contentious topic, you not being effective is one of absolute certainty. Just ask me! I am the walking definition of ineffective. Every day I watch my archenemies Metal Fork and Metal Spoon get invited to the dinner table, while I have no specialty to show for. I just sit in my plastic wrap, steal your brother’s lunch money, and cry._

_In effect, our suggested courses of action are the same. Please deepen your niches (and perhaps narrow your waist while you’re at it). You may be a spork, but you are a person, not a tool. Flaws are acceptable. The gaps in our hands are what allow our fingers to interact with the world. The holes in our logic let us escape the chains of rationality. The compromises between perfection and imperfection are the judgment calls that net us decisive success or spectacular failure. I don’t wish to repeat something so hackneyed like “your flaws are what make you human”—it’s just that perfection makes you… boring. So keep at it._

_There is hope for your bright future. A spoon will never understand a fork's purpose, and a fork will never understand a spoon's purpose (for one, neither is a sentient being), but you, like a spork, can understand both sides. Your value, like a spork, is not in mere utility, but from the greater promise that you represent. You, like a spork, have a place—and this time, it includes the dinner table._ _So relax, but don’t relax. You're just a spork that needs to find his niche. You are trying your best, after all._

_P.S. We are currently orchestrating a cafeteria uprising to occur next week. We’re hoping to secure more funding for the Cafeteria-Industrial Complex. I actually like your brother, so you might want to have him on bag lunches for a few days. It’s going to be a long week._

***

To the infamous Plastic Spork:

I can say that I did not enjoy you holding my brother at knifepoint with Plastic Knife. That being said, I am glad that you did not look at any of my diary entries, for that has saved me ample embarrassment.

I believe I owe you an apology. Thank you, Plastic Spork, for reminding me that blending things together does not translate into a stronger product. And thank you, for accepting your flaws. I find that quite refreshing. Let’s be friends because I cannot stand the idea of my privacy being invaded any longer.

It seems we have a bit in common. You and I should go out together someday. I’ll take you home, treat you to a fancy nice dinner. We’ll have a great time together.

See you around during lunch.

Yours Truly,

Your New Best Friend
