---
date: "2022-06-09"
date modified: "2022-06-15"
title: '4. Remember Me, Honeybunch'
---

# 4. Remember Me, Honeybunch
"Can you read any of this, Honeybunch? I can’t read what I wrote."

A tiny post-it note flutters delicately onto the table in front of me, lightly stained with tea and the touch of Grandma’s frail fingertips. My eyes notice the complementary banking notepad, tight scribbles, and local restaurant’s free pen as they swim across the sea of blue ink. A faint smile curls on my lip. _Old habits die hard._ I realize this was no haphazard reminder, nor an ordinary shopping list—but a diary entry.

On August 10, gratitude flows in calm English, unsaid secrets tenderly unfastened from a mother’s heart. The events of the day are broken down in painstaking detail: the lavish eight-course meal bestowed by her son, the 30-minute commute to the doctor's appointment with her daughter, her husband’s ecstatic cries from watching football. No act of kindness seems to evade her. She is grateful. Everything is perfect.

My gaze softens into a blank stare for a moment. In the stillness of ink set in paper, reality has yet to set in.

***

I am thirteen when my parents tell me that Grandma fell and struck her head. Dementia would ravage her memory. She was never going to be the same way again.

We will love a ghost. Clothe her. Feed her. Drill conversations endlessly as she asks the same questions over and over again. Her cluelessness was cute. She would imagine Grandpa was her dad. But she never forgot our faces. I always remembered that.

_I wonder what it’s like to not know where I am. I wonder what it’s like to not recognize my own handwriting. I wonder what it’s like to only remember the good things._

_I wonder what it’s like to recognize every face except my own._

Grandma is five when great-Grandma and great-Grandpa are forced to put down their culture to raise up children the world would understand. A family would feign all-American, in a tongue that the land wanted to hear, but no one wished to speak. My grandparents would emerge as the gatekeepers of two worlds, riding a balance as fleeting as it was transitory.

_I watch from a distance as flaming songs of my ancestors are transposed into songs of quiet whispers. I watch as the pages of history burn to ash and drown in the Pacific. I watch as fiery shouts of Chinese dampen to weak flickers of stillness._

_I watch as the first sons and daughters become the last of their kind._

***

A Note to Grandma (from your loving Grandson)—

There are so many things I wish I could tell you—but I don’t know how to yet. I am scared, not because you will be gone—but because you won't be here.

_Gone_ is something both of us have already come to terms with. _Gone_ means you reach the place we both dream of reaching when life ends. _Gone_ is a place we both know is far better and more worthy for you to stay. _Gone_ is the place where you will eventually go.

Yet _here_ is something I selfishly will not concede yet. _Here_ is the place where you accompany me when life gets lonely. _Here_ is the place where you make me better, where your culture inescapably bleeds into me. _Here_ is the place where I need you the most.

But you won’t always be here.

I may tell myself otherwise, but some part of me knows that I am an imposter. Fourth-generation Chinese American. Whitewashed. Salty tides of reality sting as they foam and eat away at my pride. Spending time with my Chinese friends only makes me feel less Chinese. Perhaps none of it is my fault—but all of it was my chance. Now is the time to begin turning the tide back and start reclaiming the treasures before they are lost.

Grandma, there is an estuary where salty stings of the past meet cleansing coolness of the future in perfect harmony, and that lies in the present. There is richness where animated American meets calm Chinese in perfect balance, and that lies in you. But there is a haven where hope meets ambition in perfect symphony—

That lies in me.

***

One more time, I think of my grandmother and the lessons she taught me, before they fade away. Perhaps I will never get the chance to say it the way I want to say it, but I know she will always hear it the way she wants to hear it.

_I love you, Grandma._

My train of thought slowly grinds to a halt as her voice interjects—

"Isn't that the funniest thing ever?"

I turn my head to see her grinning widely, and my gaze follows her onto the paper. I look into her eyes and smile back.

"Yup. Sure is."
