---
date: "2022-06-09"
date modified: "2022-06-15"
title: Writing
---

# Writing
Writing

Writing

Saturday, September 28, 2019

7:02 PM

It is with great power that comes great responsibility. My experience with Mr. Sylvia has been nothing short of humbling in the past few weeks. Writing itself is a pursuit that must be enjoyed under one's own volition, and frequently practiced such that one has delivered an amazing amount of content with such fervor and gusto as to rival the greats of all time. Writing is by its very nature an infinite asset: so let's make sure that we use it and practice it. As the words are used and pathways reused, my neural networks are restrengthened and made sure to fix up the real deal of my writing ability. Not everyone is made to be a writer. Creativity is not simply an asset, but a liability--dooming those who dare wield it into a life of boredom and oblivioin shoulud they somehow not find themselves free to pursue their craft. I am blessed to have all of the securities any writer would want to enjoy in their prime career: I do not have any mortgage, nor job, nor need to sustain my living with any work except that which to write. It is not passive income, but simple passiveness, that keeps me living to this day. Through this respect, my existence is incredibly impressive. Writing at such voilumes, talking with others and making merry fun with my brother, these are all simple pleasures to enjoy that I am grateful to have during my early stages of life. I shall make the best use of this situation, for it may not last after next year when I head towards college. Oh, college! How monumentally terrible you are at providing an education for the masses with your failure rate. I promise myself that I shall not fail, however. I will compel myself to keep on studying and making sure ends meet without any hesitation nor end. Impetuously, I clamber the stairs of Huntsman building (or any building, for that matter) and rise to receive an education. "Impress me" I shall exclaim. Perhaps I shall not. It is incredibly risky to odo such things under the guise of a public university. Nevertheless, college may be an opportunity to further heighten my writing abilities. After all, the setting will be but refressiong and new, and I will be surrounded by like-minded individuals who also wish to perform at the utmost elite level. Rendered in this melting pot, I will have no idealogical end t oturn upon except my strengths (ideally), which should be a source of strength on my part to be successful. In this regard, English shall serve as my true weapon oto defeating the masses: whereas my peers are obsessed over the reasoning behind STEM, I shall always have the fallback option of becoming a (prolific) writer and making ends meet through there. It is a rather humorous end for one who has fantasized of being an engineer or programmer for much of his life. However, it is the best way to make it all work out. I am incredibly pleased by this current writing session, as my ideas have become flowing out in a rapid pace. Perhaps I have metaphorically "warmed up" my neural pathways, if that is such a thing. The only thing I am focusing on is to make my typing a bottleneck rather than my speed of thought. For it is rather unfortunate that today's world has acclimated and made everying so efficient as to the only bottleneck of this system is the human mind and human condition. There is something so distinctly human in being sophisticated, writing in a posh elevated style, reminiscing of the many writings that have preceded me before. I do hope that my writings that I work on in later days this week will be incredibly fulfilling. I must also note that this current session has been nothing but pleasing to my enjoyment and condition. My brain has felt a n immense burden lifted from its shoulders, it ready to proceed to the next assignment. Thanksgiving is the perfect day for this reflection to take place. Whereas Novmeber 21 was the day I faced my demons and took to correcting my TFA essay, today is the day, exactly one week later, that Ifully realize the extent of my literary competence in writing. In the meantime, I have but 8 essays and poems to correct in the span of 4 days. This inistelf should be concerting to me, but is not. In fact, I do actually have 6 days. I shall let Harvard Square know that I have edited all of my essays with the exception of Harvard (ironically), and shall patiently await the actuali deadline of the Scholastics Art & Writing Awards. It is incredibly tight, this deadline of mine, but I shall make it through. Computing the simple arithmetic yields that I personally must yield two works per day, starting today. This of course excludes the editing spree that will inevitably come on Monday and early Tuesday. I am thus more than prepared and ready to embark on this literary journey, or sprint for that matter, in pursuit of greater education. Here we go, so cheers to greater learning and higher education.

 

Last night, I dreamt of not completing a homework assignment in Mr. Sylvia's class. Ironically, the class was oriented reverse with me sitting in the front row with the seat having an extra long metal bar that set the chair at extreme distance from the desk. The homework assignment had a multiple choice on the front and many short answer questions on the back, about a short story concerning the Avengers dropping down an elevator shaft with Wolverine. As they are falling, Captain America asks one of them to use their powers to stop them from falling. They do right below the ground, and are surrounded by a red aura. It is nothing short but Scarlet Witch! After triumphantly celebrated, they are then lifted from the sky as they walk without moving. The rest is left up to the reader's interpretation. Otherwise, a very strange dream indeed.
