---
date: "2021-10-12"
date modified: "2022-06-15"
title: 'July 4, 2019'
---

# July 4, 2019
July 4, 2019

AM

 

Happy 4th of July!

 

It has been an incredibly long battle since I have documented myself in this diary. That being said, I am here to celebrate the developments that have come with time. As a writer, my growth and ultimate maturation has undoubtedly manifested through the growth of my blog and publications. In addition, there is a poetry competition that is due in a little less than two weeks. AND I have college essays to write. Yippee!

 

I must admit that it is not easy to have so many writing projects to do. There are 3 hemispheres: college, personal, and competitive. Writing is a drain that constantly exhausts what creativity I have left. However, it is incredibly important that I develop this skill to continue to exercise academic prowess.

 

Writing this much has created several costs that I lament losing at times. For one, my mathematical ability has atrophied due to a lack of time spent with math problems. I must understand that there is no shortcut for many of these skills except spending time. My strategy in spending this time is one of the best in the world, however. As long as I spend time, I will find a way how to word everything properly.

 

Watching Wimbledon has been one of the greatest pleasures of this month. Kyrgios is an absolute joy to watch, and his energy and intelligence is beautiful to watch on the court. His mental strength could use some work, but then again so can I. I am confident that I can achieve a similar level of talent with the right fitness and workout to keep me in check. It's great to be able to watch the best of the best compete, so inspiring.

 

What am I worried about, truly? There are only 3 things I am truly worried for.

 

1st worry is my blog. I want my blog to showcase my abilities, but also must strike balance between quality and quantity. The goal is to show regular growth, but even better, to be published. However, this is the lowest priority this time of year.

 

2nd worry is my writing competitions. I have opportunities to showcase my lessons learned from poetry and the USIP. There is no guarantee that I may be able to succeed. However, it's worth a shot. Being bored is the start to great writing. Afterwards, I will jump start my writing and try to write about something that I can be emotionally invested in. I also have many old poems to pool my work from.
