---
date: "2022-06-09"
date modified: "2022-06-15"
title: 'June 14, 2019'
---

# June 14, 2019
June 14, 2019

June 14, 2019

Friday, June 14, 2019

5:06 PM

 

Today was an absolutely insane day.

1. First cockroach kill

2. Organized all writing files

3. Hiring of next activities director

4. Library to work

5. Learned about college app submitting later

6. Discovered the mind sweep

7. Cleared head and organized file systems

8. Mr. Lam passed away

9. Started driving

10. Watched Midway w/ dad and Coral Sea

11. Drank whole beer

12. Wendover production videos

 
The first order of business - I woke up super early. I woke up around 5 AM, struggled to maintain myself until around 5:30 AM but then rose. It was as I slowly unhooked the light switch to the playroom that I spotted the faint silhouette of a cockroach-to which I exclaimed a huge expletive and consternation. The next 30 minutes would be a struggle to obtain a stable head. I went to Dad and Mom's room in order to alert them of the crisis, to which they grumpily replied the directions to obtain the soap sprayer. Father proceeded to obtain this device, but the cockroach was gone. The next 15 minutes proceeded to be a torturous wait for the ugly beast to rear its head. As I waited, I slowly realized what was necessary. I took a break, and went to my room to work on myself and organize my files. I eventually read about 10 pages of Dorian Gray, an exciting achievement.
 
As I began my morning ritual, I could see the cockroach quickly scurrying across the room on the other side. This was my opportunity. Yet, my advances were halted quickly by a paralyzing fear that could be characterized by tightening muscles. I crabbed my arms and crossed them, yet it was essential to get the mission done. I grabbed the can, and sprayed a volley, to which the cockroach hastily replied. It scurried across underneath my father's bag, and so I removed it. Eventually, after a grueling series of volleys, hide-and-seek, and scurrying, the cockroach melted in the bathroom. I proceeded to clean the mess with appropriate diligence.
 
The event speaks its own importance; for it was my first confirmed kill of a cockroach, to the benefit of my ego. Reveling in my accomplishment, I proceeded to clear my writing ideas into Google sheets, using a new system of stacking tasks rather than categorizing. This further improved my efficacy, and I soon completely organized my data appropriately in a graphical organized manner.
 
By the time this task had been completed, my mother offered me a typical breakfast consisting of watermelon and mangoes as well as eggs and wheat bread. It was time to depart for hiring the activities director.
 
Observing and introducing the directors was an utter pleasure. As ASB president, Dr. Tung asked that I escort our guests both in and out of the room from the lobby to B101 to the Assistant Principals. Our selection of Mr. Press, Ms. M, and Mr. Vo were super nice Mr. Press especially came with a prepared paper presentation and Mr. Vo came ready with a really fun applicable activity. I really am excited to have either of them on the team. I can't wait to see where this turns out! After the interviews, we remarked that it would be super interesting if Mr. Vo was an advisor with Mr. Green, as their personalities completely oppose one another. Mr. Vo's laid back and team-oriented methods are very different from Mr. Vo's individual emphasis. This ultimately is the
 
The next course of action after hiring was going to the library to work. There, I struggled with my ideas in my head but prevailed in discovering that I can always add awards and accolades later to my college resume.
