---
date: '2021-04-19'
date modified: "2022-06-16"
title: '[[2021-04-19]] HCC Exec'
---

# [[2021-04-19]] HCC Exec

## Why Are You Running for This Position?
Throughout this past year, I've been drawn to one main question: how can we help students feel connected with their campus?

It is through running for SAC that I hope to continue tackling this question, create new events and initiatives, and to help further connect the Hopper community.

This year, I have had an absolute blast in HCC! I love the process—asking for feedback, answering people's requests, and watching their faces light up when we follow through. I want to continue helping foster a community of trust, transparency, and openness—whether it be through corresponding with HCC/Head Adams/Dean Francis and Hopper 2024, striking up random lunch conversations with other Hopplites, or asking Hopplites for feedback or just how their day is going. Through my experience as class and student body president in high school, I hope to leverage my event planning ability often, and help ensure everyone feels connected. I'm excited to tackle these problems as SAC next year!

## What Ideas Do You Have for HCC That Relate to Your Position, the Council, and/or the College? (These Could Include Modifications You'd Like to Make to the Council, Events You'd Like HCC to Host, or Changes You'd Like to See in the college) *
Above all, I hope not just to bring ideas to HCC, but a system which constantly encourages, gathers, and iterates upon user feedback. To do this, I will concentrate on a single question: how can I ensure that people feels valued and their voices heard?

To help solve this question, I would like to iterate upon the internal Hopper internal improvements to-do list (<https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/17l8Gyw8nyTldsczvy9y4mEEcA6XLa6T60_fdGKIFZiE/edit?usp=sharing>) that currently manages all of the feedback from my peers. I plan to incorporate a feature where Hopplites can anonymously add and "upvote" items in this to-do list, further decreasing the barrier to provide feedback. I will continue checking these tasks weekly and following up within 1 week of posting. In addition, I aim to send weekly reminding blasts to encourage others to message me any advice or feedback.

Another idea I'm interested in is to frequently propose multiple ideas to Hopper at once, but to enable them to vote or rank each choice. This way, we not only are able to fully utilize HCC and Hopplites together to brainstorm ideas, but Hopplites also get input on the decision-making process, which helps increase transparency and potential attendance. It also helps us more accurately gauge interest in our event ideas. I have had numerous other ideas—such as karaoking with our speakers or pianos, walking Hopper's dogs, and playing video games or movie nights with our outdoor projector—but most importantly, I know my fellow Hopplites can create even better ideas, ones that they would be excited to attend, that would be awesome to capture and act upon.

## Speech
Everyone! My name is Braden, and I'm running to be your HCC Student Activities Chair! This year, I have had an absolute blast in HCC. Throughout this past year, I've been drawn to one main question: how can we help students feel connected with their campus?

It is through running for SAC that I hope to continue tackling this question, create new events and initiatives, and to help further connect the Hopper community. ! I love the process—asking for feedback, answering people's requests, and watching their faces light up when we follow through. I want to continue helping foster a community of trust, transparency, and openness—whether it be through corresponding with HCC/Head Adams/Dean Francis and Hopper 2024, striking up random lunch conversations with other Hopplites, or asking Hopplites for feedback or just how their day is going. Through my experience as class and student body president in high school, I hope to leverage my event planning ability often, and help ensure everyone feels connected. I'm excited to tackle these problems as SAC next year!

But my skills and what I have done are merely a means to an end.
