---
date: "2022-06-09"
date modified: "2022-06-15"
title: Lincoln Brainwriting Essay 2
---

# Lincoln Brainwriting Essay 2
Sunday, October 25, 2020

8:31 PM

 

 

First, onto why secession was not justified from a practical standpoint. It is important to The South frequently confuses feasibility for practicality. While secession was possible, the question of whether or not it was worth it is in question. I am also saying that it was not necessarily feasible. One may then ask how should one do this if one were to also consider the feasibility of secession. The estimation of secession was not only that it was feasible when in fact the costs were underestimated, but it was impractical because the actual right to slavery was nonunique.
Now, onto the moral standpoint. The south was immoral in their justification of secession because they often used legal justification in lieu of moral obligation. The North wins in why the South *ought* not to secede because of the Union and everything else wonderful about it. The south’s defense was often moral or rested on the right to slavery and the inferiority of the African American. Even if we were to remove the hindsight that this was wrong, the south rested their case on the threat to slavery, when in fact there had been no infringement on this right, as paved by Lincoln. Therefore, we can see that there is a stark contrast between the Union and Confederacy in this aspect. Whereas the South based their moral argument on concerns, these concerns were in fact not realized. The fact that the right to slavery was a central aspect of the secession caused them to faulter in their split.
Equivocating stuff. Currently I feel pretty confident about this essay although I’m a little bit concerned about the whole what if part. There’s a lot to write and the lack of a final draft is slightly disconcerting. However, there’s a lot more great things that can happen. The night is still young, and just like the previous one, I will definitely find my rhythm and do my best to maintain it. I am feeling a little tired right now, but that’s normal considering what I have to do in the coming weeks. That’s completely fine. I will find my rhythm. There’s so much to look forward to this week! I have Halloween, lots of dances, and connections to so many different residential colleges after I finish all my work. That would definitely be an incredibly fun experience to visit. However, of course, above all, I must keep in mind that my sleep and exercise is incredibly important. Studies are important but do not always come first. Sometimes, good things can happen from the most random of moments. I’ll have to see what moments help set me up for the greatest values. I’m trying to get into this flow state at the moment, and am in this regard succeeding. I’m hitting a stride in how many words I’m typing and warming up the circuitry in my brain to help me type my essay in a much faster manner. I am ready for the challenges ahead.
The South utterly refused to acknowledge the might of the North. Actually, this is not true, let’s rewind. Talking and getting everything cleared up is good. My goal is to now hit 1000 words. Let’s talk about the Union. The Union was interesting in the fact that it respected the South in many ways but still wished for a way to maintain the Union. Many traders actually wanted their to be peace and compromise so that the markets would remain optimistic. Getting that would have been a great win for them, but that ended up not happening as we shall see. However, instead, what happened was that there was a short conflict, after which there was a complete ending of slavery and halting in the United States. The Union’s persistence and the South’s recalcitrance ultimately led to the downfall of the Confederacy. For better or worse, one could have argued that secession was bad for both parties, as the idea that slavery was naturally dying out could have led to a great saving of American lives. However, instead, the death of so many Americans has made this topic an especially sensitive issue. Most of the time, we don’t feel the effects of these developments in America, but that isn’t to say the undercurrents aren’t there. In hindsight, the civil war had a profound impact on the way the United States, perhaps any of the 19<sup>th</sup> century or entire history of the United States for that matter. There is an extreme attachment to the constitution and Union. The Civil war led to the dissolution of the word “Union” in favor of more apt names such as United States, and have since been United. One could say that it set a precedent that the United States would always remain unified, even in times of great distress and uprest, due to the knowledge passed down from this traumatic event in history. It also has led to the moral question of slavery being almost completely solved, as to argue the opposite side would be suicidal in modern political landscapes. Getting this much of my thoughts on a piece of paper is great in strengthening my knowledge of the material. The fact that option + backspace does backspace plus a space on a word means that typing right afterwards offsets my typing. I don’t want to have to type another space afterwards. Anyways, in conclusion, the civil war had lasting effects on the United States. The southern states, in seceding, set a precedent that would affect the US for many years to come.
