---
date: "2022-09-27"
date modified: "2022-09-27"
---

# Special Relativity

## Excerpt from [[HUMS 430 Thought Experiments]]
- Supposeto make things vividthat the speed of light is a hundred miles an hour. Now suppose I am standing by the side of the road and I see a light beam pass by at this speed. Then I see you chasing after it in a car at sixty miles an hour. To me, it appears that the light beam is outpacing you by forty miles an hour. But you, from inside your car, must see the beam escaping you at a hundred miles an hour, just as you would if you were standing still: that is what the light principle demands. What if you gun your engine and speed up to ninety-nine miles an hour? Now I see the beam of light outpacing you by just one mile an hour. Yet to you, inside the car, the beam is still racing ahead at a hundred miles an hour, despite your increased speed. How can this be? Speed, of course, equals distance divided by time. Evidently, the faster you go in your car, the shorter your ruler must become and the slower your clock must tick relative to mine; that is the only way we can continue to agree on the speed of light. (If I were to pull out a pair of binoculars and look at your speeding car, I would actually see its length contracted and you moving in slow motion inside.)
- It was the sacrifice of absolute time that was most stunning. Isaac Newton believed that time was objective, universal, and transcendent of all natural phenomena; "the flowing of absolute time is not liable to any change," he declared at the beginning of his Principia. Einstein, however, realized that our idea of time 1S something we abstract from OUT experience with rhythmic phenomena: heartbeats, planetary rota tions and revolutions, the ticking of clocks. Time judgments always come down to judgments of simultaneity. "If, for instance, I say, 'That train arrives here at 7 o'clock,' I mean something like this: 'The point ing of the small hand of my watch to 7 and the arrival of the train are simultaneous events, " Einstein wrote in the June paper. If the events in question are at some distance from each other, judgments of simul tancity can be made only by sending light signals back and forth. Work ing from his two basic principles, Einstein proved that whether an observer deems two events to be happening "at the same time" depends on his state of motion. In other words, there is no universal now. With different observers slicing up the timescape into past, present, and "future" in different ways, it seems to follow that all moments coexist with equal reality.
