---
date: "2022-06-09"
date modified: "2022-06-15"
title: 3. “Banana”
---

# 3. “Banana”
_The immigrant's battle to assimilate lasts a few generations, but the war to stay in touch with their roots never ends._

**17 years ago // The Beginning**

I emerge from the womb with a smile. At least, that is what my parents tell me. When I wake up, I bend into a crescent and thump my legs against the mattress. I never cry to get attention. Everything I do is with a smile.

**10 years ago // First Contact**

"Do you speak Chinese?"

I learn that there is a right answer to that question, and that I must look as smart as possible because I only can give the wrong one.

Later that night I ask my family why I don't speak Chinese. The answer is complicated.

**9 years ago // The Antagonist Appears**

I am next in line on the punchball courts when Krishna struts up to me, eye to eye, his heat blasting my face.

"Go away," he says. "We don't want you here."

When the teacher isn’t looking, he starts shouting at the class in Chinese. I watch his gestures, listening to the class's giggles. Someday, I will learn they are laughing with him, not at me. I cry, but crying doesn't teach you Chinese.

During recess, I walk around with my friend Steve and talk about science and technology. Steve isn’t ostracized for his language, of course. Steve speaks Chinese. He is just a nerd. And that was something that united us.

Later that night, I ask my parents again why I don't speak Chinese. The answer is because we never went to China. I take a deep breath and close my eyes. I wish my family could afford to go to China.

**8 years ago // The B-Word**

Someone called me one today. “Yellow on the outside, white on the inside,” they said.

My brother hates bananas. He says it’s just the texture, but he won’t touch banana yogurt or candy or taffy. He was born in the year of the Monkey. It’s really quite funny.

But I absolutely love bananas. I am just puzzled.

_Why must bananas be white on the inside?_

**7 years ago // Finding Friends**

I stay up late nights revising English essays with my father, hoping I could turn knowing one language into a strength rather than a weakness. I rise in early mornings studying math problems with my mother, believing I can stay competitive with my friends. I spend countless hours studying new coding languages, fantasizing that they could replace Chinese as my missing tongues. I study physics, to become an engineer just like the others. I want to be a good Asian boy.

Books are my friends because they don't talk behind my back or spit insults to my face. Books are my friends because they hold no judgements. Books are my friends because my family can't afford after-school and tutors like my peers.

Books are my friends because the ones I read are in English.

**6 years ago // Insider Information**

I am tired. Understanding my culture comes through exhausting interrogation sessions with my parents. My friends don’t even know what _interrogation_ means.

I tell myself, _Go ahead and continue forcing this facade. Go ahead and study more math, just like the other Asians. Go ahead and write for hours until your fingers bleed from pressing the blade, dreaming these strokes will whip you into something whole. Go ahead and learn another programming language, hoping it turns you into something respectable. You do you. You know best._

I learn that Krishna is half-Indian, half-Chinese, but at this age brown and yellow are the same to me.

**5 years ago // The Reveal**

“I’m fourth generation.”

The entire classroom gasps, a concept so foreign to them. It’s not foreign to me. I mean, look at me. I am the opposite of foreign. I look just like you. And in 50 years your grandkids will talk like me too.

For the first time, I publicly disclose my family history. My Irish history teacher, piercing gaze staring into our hearts, slumps vanquished in his chair. He was only third.

There are different flavors of immigrants, and when their flavors mix you get something blander every time.

**4 years ago // Embrace**

My best friend cries when she realizes she is forgetting how to write Chinese. Her characters’ mangled corpses litter the floor, her weapon still dripping with their blood after a flurry of violent strokes. She curls into a little ball. I listen to her quiet sobs, but—

I cannot relate to her. I will never have to endure the pain of forgetting my mother tongue. _Thank you grandma, thank you grandpa_ comes to my head but it’s only half sincere. I want to suffer, too.

**3 years ago // Descension**

My hipster friends are sneaking out to go drinking because they think it’s the American thing to do. They pride themselves in abandoning their culture because it's cool. I just smile. _That's the spirit._ My grandparents never had a choice.

I realize that four generations simmering in this melting pot is better than one generation of blanching.

**2 years ago // Ascension**

I look at these hallways with a different lens. Losing the one community I had made me eager to join every other one I could. My friend asked me, "Mr. President, how do you manage to do everything?"

It turns out that doing everything is a good replacement for missing something—the one thing I can’t do just yet.

**1 year ago // Best Friends**

Krishna invites me to his birthday party. We were good friends from the beginning, we tell everyone. We’re really close. Krishna calls himself a rotten banana.

**Today // Final Form**

I am fourth generation Chinese. And I do not speak Chinese. Sure, I may be able to code in 5 programming languages. I dutifully respond whenever my mother tenderly barks orders in Mandarin. I eat rice and dumplings and indulge in boba and hot pot and noodles. But these are only excuses, to persuade an otherwise unconvinced audience that I somehow can relate to the struggles of an immigrant. I am the quintessential banana: yellow on the outside, white on the inside. And a bunch of other colors in between.

My country loves bananas. And don't you dare tell me otherwise.
