---
date: "2022-06-09"
date modified: "2022-06-15"
title: '7. Let It Happen: A Guide to a Nonchalent Embrace of Human Nature'
---

# 7. Let It Happen: A Guide to a Nonchalent Embrace of Human Nature
Without a doubt, humanity has been the driving force of incomprehensible change in the world. Since the dawn of its conception, it has sought and succeeded in pushing boundaries in all respects, surpassing even the metaphorical sky-imposed limit and penetrating into the heavens of space. Yet, despite all of its well-earned achievements, it is likely that no human would ever dare state that humans have always been perfect. A few years in basic history class has made it clear that countless questionable actions, giant steps made in reverse, and needless time put to waste have all been hallmarks of human history, and that such incidents reiterate over and over, no matter how much analysis, introspection, or documentation may be painstakingly spent. Yet life and our story continue on, and the past is merely put aside to be reviewed later in hopes of actual application.

It is nothing short of absolute truth to denote the status of humans as completely ironic. Neatly housed within a skull as the culmination of countless millennia and immeasurable growth exists an unequivocal and indefinite paradox: one that ceaselessly craves both order and disorder, resources and their destruction, and as history proves quite frequently, war. Such is the driving force for many of man’s accomplishments—new lands have frequently been discovered out of thirst for resources and conquest, technologies often out of need for use in conflict, and space in the midst of unprecedented international tension, if not the brink of utter extinction. Our issue of modern times is not the will of nature to destroy us, but that of ourselves, on numerous, if not innumerable, fronts. A perpetual cycle of self-loathing and self-vindication drives an existential crisis; as if the conception of humanity were a disaster rather than monumental achievement of both evolution and nature (or vice versa). Yet time still continues on, as do life and our very existence, in our very own perfect symphony of harmony and acrimony, concord and discord, and love and hate.

It seems as of now that the concept of human nature is of ever more heated discussion, yet most solidly frozen in place. We may try to stymie the likes of negative traits such as arrogance, greed, and conquest, but such traits are often positive ones in mere disguise—arrogance as an exaggeration of self-confidence, greed an embellishment of self-interest, and conquest an obsession of exploration—all of which are significant if not essential characteristics for survival and success. Most importantly, we cannot afford to completely stifle one of the most valued characteristics of humanity—passion.

A trait transcending all aspects of logic, it is the quintessential charm of the irrational—because after all, being rational is completely and utterly boring. The restless human spirit would much rather prefer a blind fixation on the impossible than face facts and doubts. Such deviations from reality are the impetus for outstanding achievement—because the impossible is occasionally and inexplicably made possible through sheer willpower, circumstance and luck—and also conflict. We may gain deeper understandings of the caveats and intricacies of human nature through observing history, yet it takes only one individual with extraordinary passion to send the entire system into disarray again, no matter how meticulous in construction. Brief stints of anger, love, and vengeance all throw out any constructs of rationality, the resulting domino effect force potentially bringing entire civilizations down to their knees.

Yet, it is almost poetic fantasy to forsake rules for hopeless idealism. To attempt to stifle such instincts would be counterintuitive: if there is no passion, then how is life worth living? For the sake of preserving the traits that make us human, the answer is simple: proclaim that there is no use in changing the unchangeable, and attempt to find appreciation in what is both humankind’s greatest asset and greatest liability. May it be said that it is better to let all traits run free within their own boundaries, with a watchful eye should evil manifest, than to set limits few would wish to follow. The most powerful weapon of all is acknowledgement and adaptability, rather than rigid regulations on the ever more unrestrainable and restless human spirit. And if conflict is inevitable, and every safeguard has failed, there is one solution—

Let it happen. It is as if the very inferno of human nature, its intricacies, and contradictions, are what ultimately complete the quintessential human template. We are perfect in one thing, and that is being hopelessly imperfect. The traits that we possess are not black-and-white, but rather a double-edged sword in their entirety; one that requires constant care so that it may cut forward, not back. Rather than to stifle the flames in our hearts, it is important to kindle them with both pride and tenderness. Should our efforts prove successful, then all the better for humanity.
