---
date: "2022-06-09"
date modified: "2022-06-15"
title: 8. Grace is Getting What You Don't Deserve
---

# 8. Grace is Getting What You Don't Deserve
In the darkness I feel only love and loneliness. My grandfather's wavering steps. His hand resting on me with an icy tenderness. Pace struggling to keep up with steady footsteps. I guide him from the car into the house through an empty wasteland. We no longer give him slippers when he walks through the door. We just let his sneakers trample all around the place. He should use a walker, just like Grandma did.

When we reach the light inside and Grandpa sees my brother and me, he recites our names and our ages with a toothy grin. I smile. He always remembers. Dad gets us two mixed up sometimes, our ages and our names too. Grandpa has five children and over ten grandchildren. I realize I don't know Grandpa's age.

"Happy Chinese New Year!" we all say to each other. It's Thanksgiving today, but Grandma said it earnestly every gathering, no matter the occasion. Now we say it as inside jokes, smiles lining our faces. The only thing earnest about it is that it's our deepest homage, that we will always remember Grandma. Even if dementia meant she wouldn’t remember us.

This year, the giant family table will remain in the garage, unused. It helps so we won't have to look at the empty seat where Grandma used to sit. Five plates line up on our normal table, their asymmetry striking a hollow ugliness. It looks like there is more food when there's less empty space.

I remembered to help Mom prepare the food this time. I set the table, heaping loads of turkey and stuffing and pumpkin and beans and soup and cranberries and gravy. I know that the food will be delicious. We will scarf it voraciously. There will be no dessert. No family movie night. No celebrating until Grandpa is safely sent back to the nursing home before it’s past curfew. There will be little talk in between our muffled bites tonight.

My brother refuses to leave his room while Mom and Dad do Mom and Dad things. Grandpa sits alone, watching what the world will look like when he's gone. The food gets colder.

I thank God when Dad finally enters the room. He turns on the heater and I realize the air is freezing. It's miserably cold. I drown my meat in gravy, hear the sizzle as it struggles to keep warm. Watch steam pour from its cracks.

Dad and Grandpa talk about losing track of time, that they think tomorrow is Saturday when it's a Thursday. They talk about cancelling the TV subscription at the old house. I wonder if the TV is left on just like Grandpa used to leave it. Grandpa says he’s fed well at the nursing home. He hasn't had to worry about Grandma. He’s happy.

I look at the steaming soup. _Remember what Grandma used to say?_ _Always scoop over the surface._ I thought to myself. _Dig deeper, and you'll get burned._

Nobody asks me this time about leaving for college or when I’ll be coming back. I’m not offended. We know what's next. But Grandma always asked me how school was going. Even when she forgot my name.

"Okay, now who would like to say grace?" Dad says enthusiastically. As custom, I volunteer.

We bow our heads for prayer. There is only dead silence. I feel sweat as soup steams over my face. For the first time, I can't think of anything to say. _Happy Chinese New Year,_ I mutter with a defeated smile.
